All the apps that we built so far have one thing in common they only have a single activity or screen
to display information to the user.
The more complex apps are we're going to build in the rest of the Course will often require more than
one activity.
So now we're going to find out how to add a second activity to our app and switch and pass data between
two activities.
So if we get a call there's multiple activities
demo and we use a marshmallow API even though we could be doing this with a low API nothing that we're
doing is Marshmallow specific.
So here we go initially to add a second activity is very very easy.
We just go to file new activity and then we just pick the activity that we want.
If you want to look at the specific activities then you can.
So let's just quickly go to the gallery and then this is what we're familiar with.
We'll keep to a nice empty activity.
So I'll call this
second activity leave the name is activity second.
The package name is the same as before.
So here we go.
You can see we've now got two activities and inside our layout although we've got two Excel files to
describe the two different activities.
So now we've got our second activity how are we going to access it from the first.
We'll just run the app in the background to get things displaying
them more about the rendering problems just because things are still starting up.
So I'm going to bring in a button
doesn't really matter where we have it in the app to just that.
And this is this button is going to allow users to switch from the first activity to the second.
So I'm going to change the text to jump to a second activity and we'll add in an enclave method of two
second activity
came just jacked that up a bit.
And then we'll take a quick look at have the second activity.
So that's just blank at the moment which is fine.
All we want to do is to be sure that we have successfully jumped to the second activity.
So then over in the main activity you have a file we'll write our usual code to do something when that
pattern is clicked.
So public FOID to second activity call by our putten view and then we're going to write our code to
jump to the second activity and we do this by creating something called intent.
And intent is essentially something that changes the target of our code.
So it might be jumping to a second activity or even to a different.
And I'm going to call the intent intent and this is going to be a new intent within the application
context within this app and we want to jump to the second activity.
So we're going to call that second activity.
What it is called second activity taught class so that will navigate to the second activity when we
start this intent.
And we do that using start activity
using the intent that we've just created
so that we don't we should now be able to jump to the second connected connectivity activity.
So you can see our original app once that's built
should update with the New button.
Here we go.
So let's tap the button and you can see we jumped to the second activity.
So simple as that.
Here's a quick challenge for you to practice doing that.
Can you create a button on the second activity which jumps back to the first activity.
Simple as that.
Go for it.
All right.
Have you managed it.
It really it's very similar to what we've done already.
So dragging a button to the second activity
back to main activity
will give it an on click of back to main and then either in the second activity you have a file
or create a method a public void back to Main
with how about.
And then we create our intent
which is a new intent
using the application context.
And this time we want to go back to main activity class.
And then finally we start that act.
Tippett te using the intent that we just created.
All right so let's see that in action.
The first activity should work as before.
But the second activity will now have a button which links that back to the main activity.
Here we go.
So let's jump to the second activity and then back to the main activity and there we go.
So we can jump back and forward as many times as we like now.
Great.
So we've now got two activities and we can jump between them.
Obviously we could extend that to as many activities as we like but a common thing to want to do is
to pass variables back and forth between the activities.
So let's see how we do that.
So let's say we've got a variable that we want to pass to the second activity from the first we would
take our intent and we would put an extra or an extra bit of information with our intent.
And we might have something like a username and then that you and I might be Rob simple as that.
Then in the second activity when we want to receive that variable we would actually get an see the uncreate
method.
So when the activity is displayed and again we create an intent and this one is going to get the intent
that brought the user to this activity and then create a quick toast
and we're going to display the value that we received.
So it's get and we have to specify the type of data.
So we're sending and receiving a string.
So it get string extra and the name of the variable that we want to get is username
OK.
So let's take a look at that.
Now when we jump to the second activity it should give us a little pop up with the value of the variable
that we've passed to it and that's the best way to share data between different activities.
Here we go.
So jump to set connectivity and there you see the robber appeared for us then.
All right.
So now a fairly big challenge for you to put this together.
A common use of two activities is to have in the main activity a table which shows for example a collection
of username.
And then when one of those is tapped on it jumps to a second activity which allows you to send a tweet
to that user.
Post a photo or whatever it might be.
So the challenge is to remember how to set up a table within the first activity and then have the name
of four friends in that table.
And then when you tap on them it's simply the second activity says hello to whoever that person was
that they used the tap on.
That's it.
Best of luck pulls the video and give it a shot.
All right.
I thought well I'm going to start by getting rid of the two second activity and say getting rid of the
too user interface elements in the first activity.
And now let's bring in our list view.
There's been a while since we've done one of these.
Hopefully you remember how they work.
So I'm going to drag in my list few here.
And I'll give it an idea just over the last few there get right then we're going to go to main activity
and write some code to set up our list.
So first off let's find it.
It's a list view that view here as well.
We're going to want to cast this to a list view and find it by its ID resources ID list.
Then I'm going to create an array list of strings to represent my list of friends.
And this is going to be a new array list of strings.
Then I'll take my list and add some names to it.
So we'll start with Monica
maybe Chandler you see where this is getting
Jerry
and Rachel.
Sorry Phoebe and Ross but we only had room for four.
Right now I'm just going to get my rainless to display on my list.
So if you remember I create an array adapter
which I'll call array adapter.
And this is going to be a new array adapter.
Using this activity has the context and then the format is going to be Android or are lay out a simple
list item one and the list.
We're going to link it up with his friends and then we set our adapter to attach to the Great.
So before we go any further let's just quickly check that that's worked.
We should now see on the main activity that we have a list of four friends in our list view and there
we go.
Now of course I can tap on them but nothing will happen.
So we now need some code to do something when an item is clicked on our list view.
Again we have done this before.
So hopefully you remember we use List View set on item click listener and this is going to be a new
adapter view the dots on item clicked Lisner
and I've got a parenthesis out of place that now will allow Android studio to implement the required
method.
All right click
Wonderfalls of that much we've done before.
And then we just need to create our intent and jump into the second activity passing the variable to
it.
So as before create the intent it's a new intent
using the application context.
And then we're going to jump to second activity plus
then we just need to add that extra bit of data to the intent.
So we're going to put extra It's going to have a variable name of name and the value is going to be
friends don't get it.
And then we use the variable i hear
to represent the number of the wire that the user has tapped.
And then we just start the activity intent.
One small issue here.
Yes because the friends list is being accessed from a method here.
We have to set the variable type to be final so it can be accessed from within this method.
OK so now all that remains is to write our code for a second activity.
And in fact it's going to be very very similar.
The only difference is that the name that we want to display has a variable name of name this time rather
than username or item.
So let's give it a try.
We shouldn't be able to tap on any one of these four.
And the variable name will be passed to the second activity which will then display it as a toast
and that we got back to the main activity.
We can try again if we want to wonderful.
OK so now you can add as many activities as you like.
You know how to switch between them and you also know how to parse variables between them.
Now then that takes us to the final app of this section which is a pretty big one.
The biggest you built so far in fact and that is memorable places.